Adding dev doc for managing HTTP/Json API (#4812)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/developer/handling-requests/json.adoc

---

> title: Working with json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Working with JSON
```

> summary: How to handle Json HTTP request with Jenkins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: How to handle JSON HTTP request with Jenkins
```

layout: developersection
references:
- url: https://github.com/stapler/stapler/blob/master/docs/reference.adoc
  title: Stapler URL Binding Reference
- url: ../routing
  title: How requests in Jenkins are routed
- url: ../../testing
  title: Testing Jenkins
---

> ## Handle request in Jenkins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Handle request in Jenkins
```

> ### Pre-requisite : a POJO (Plain Old Java Object)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Pre-requisite : a POJO (Plain Old Java Object)
```

> For the exemple we are using a very simple Object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example we are using a very simple Object.
```

> Note that if you use Stapler for marshalling and unmarshalling Json, you will need an empty constructor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that if you use Stapler for marshalling and unmarshalling JSON, you need an empty constructor.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
----
```

public static class MyJsonObject {
    private String message;

    //empty constructor required for JSON parsing.
    public MyJsonObject() {}

    public MyJsonObject(String message) {
        this.message = message;
    }

    public void setMessage(String message) {
        this.message = message;
    }

    public String getMessage() {
        return message;
    }
}

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
```

> ### Handling GET with Jenkins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Handling GET with Jenkins
```

> ```java

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,java]
----
```

    @CheckForNull
    @Override
    public String getIconFileName() {
        return null; /* (4) */
    }

    @CheckForNull
    @Override
    public String getDisplayName() {
        return null; /* (5) */
    }

    @Override
    public String getUrlName() {
        return "custom-api"; /* (6) */
    }

    @GET
    @WebMethod(name = "get-example")/* (7) */
    public /* (8) */ JsonHttpResponse getExample() {
        JSONObject response = JSONObject.fromObject(new MyJsonObject("I am Jenkins"));
        return new JsonHttpResponse(response, 200); /* (9) */
    }

    @GET
    @WebMethod(name = "get-example-param")
    public JsonHttpResponse getWithParameters(@QueryParameter(required = true) String paramValue /* (9) */) {
        assertNotNull(paramValue);
        JSONObject response = JSONObject.fromObject(new MyJsonObject("I am Jenkins " + paramValue));
        return new JsonHttpResponse(response, 200);
    }

    @GET
    @WebMethod(name = "get-error500")
    public JsonHttpResponse getError500() { /* (10) */
        JsonHttpResponse error500 = new JsonHttpResponse(JSONObject.fromObject(new MyJsonObject("You got an error 500")), 500);
        throw error500;
    }
}

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----

```

1. Non exhaustive list of imports to use.

> 2. Need to be an extension to be discovered as a service by Jenkins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Must be an extension to be discovered as a service by Jenkins.
```

> 3. This class is an extension of RootAction, it's a way to expose HTTP paths. It's more frequently use to expose Web UI, but it can be use also without HTML rendering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. This class is an extension of RootAction.  It is a way to expose HTTP paths that is more frequently used to expose the Web UI, but it can also be used without HTML rendering.
```

> 4. Since there is no HTML/Jelly rendering, no icon are needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Since there is no HTML/Jelly rendering, no icons are needed.
```
Or perhaps it should be "no icon is needed"?

> 5. Since there is no HTML/Jelly rendering, no display name are needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Since there is no HTML/Jelly rendering, no display name is needed.
```
Or perhaps it should be "no display names are needed"?

> 6. `getUrlName()` is the root of the Json API, all WebMethod in the class will be prefixed by this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. `getUrlName()` is the root of the JSON API.  Each WebMethod in the class is prefixed by this.
```

> 7. `@GET` indicates the HTTP method that is expected, and `@WebMethod` that it's accepting an HTTP request. By default the java name of the WebMethod is used, but it can be specified by using `name =`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. `@GET` indicates the HTTP method that is expected, and `@WebMethod` indicates that it is accepting an HTTP request. By default, the JAVA name of the WebMethod is used, but a different name can be specified by using `name =`
```

> 8. `JsonHttpResponse` is a sub class of `HttpResponse` that indicates that the response content will be Json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. `JsonHttpResponse` is a sub class of `HttpResponse` that indicates that the response content will be JSON
```

> 9. It's possible to indicate an HTTP status to set in the response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. An HTTP status can be set in the response.
```

> 10. This method `get-error500` is added in the exemple to show how to do a error response as Json.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. The method `get-error500` is added in the example to show how to set a error response as JSON.
```

> ### Testing with CURL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Testing with CURL
```

> A `mvn hpi:run` in the plugin should be enough to run it locally; assuming that jenkins is up at http://localhost:8080/jenkins/ you should have at this point:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `mvn hpi:run` in the plugin should be enough to run it locally.  Assuming that Jenkins is up at http://localhost:8080/jenkins/ , you should have at this point:
```

> ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
----
```

curl -XGET -w "\n STATUS:%{http_code}" http://localhost:8080/jenkins/custom-api/get-example-param?paramValue=hello
{"message":"I am Jenkins hello"}
 STATUS:200

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
```

> ### Exemple of test with JenkinsRule

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example of test with JenkinsRule
```

> ```java

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,java]
----
```

    }

    @Test
    public void testAdvancedGetJSON() throws Exception {
        //Testing a GET that requires the user to be authenticated
        User admin = User.getById("admin", true);
        MockAuthorizationStrategy auth = new MockAuthorizationStrategy()
                .grant(Jenkins.ADMINISTER).everywhere().to(admin);

        j.jenkins.setSecurityRealm(j.createDummySecurityRealm());
        j.jenkins.setAuthorizationStrategy(auth);

        //We need to setup the webclient
        JenkinsRule.WebClient webClient = j.createWebClient();
        webClient.setThrowExceptionOnFailingStatusCode(false); //we need this to assert status code, by default it's throwing an exception.

        // - simple call without authentication should be forbidden
        response = j.getJSON("custom-api/get-example-param?paramValue=hello", webClientAcceptException);
        assertEquals(response.getStatusCode(), 403);

        // - same call but authenticated using withBasicApiToken() should be fine
        response = j.getJSON("custom-api/get-example-param?paramValue=hello", webClientAcceptException.withBasicApiToken(admin));
        assertEquals(response.getStatusCode(), 200);
    }

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
```

### Handling POST with Jenkins

Starting from the class `JsonAPI` provided for GET example, add:

> ```java

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,java]
----
```

@POST
@WebMethod(name = "")
public JsonHttpResponse create(@JsonBody JSONObject body) {
    MyJsonObject parsedBody = (MyJsonObject) body.toBean(MyJsonObject.class);
    //Do any logic required for creation
    //For the example purpose we just unmarshall and recreate json
    JSONObject response = JSONObject.fromObject(parsedBody);
    return new JsonHttpResponse(response, 200);
}

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
```

### Testing with CURL

> A `mvn hpi:run` in the plugin should be enough to run it locally; assuming that jenkins is up at http://localhost:8080/jenkins/ you should have at this point:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `mvn hpi:run` in the plugin should be enough to run it locally.  Assuming that Jenkins is up at http://localhost:8080/jenkins/ , you should have at this point:
```

Get the crumb.... TBD

> Write a file `my.json` containing the json body:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Write a file `my.json` containing the JSON body:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
----
```

{"message":"A nice message to send"}

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
```

And then send the POST request:

> ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
----
```

> ```shell

Author: yes sorry I didn't notice while writing oops....

curl -XPOST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "Jenkins-Crumb: test" http://localhost:40393/jenkins/testing-cli/postSomething --data "@/my.json"
{"message":"A nice message to send"}
 STATUS:200

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
```

> ### Exemple of test with JenkinsRule

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example of test with JenkinsRule
```

> Starting from the class `JsonAPITest` provided for GET example, add:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from the class `JsonAPITest` provided for the GET example, add:
```

> ```java

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,java]
----
```

@Test
public void testPostJSON() throws Exception {

    MyJsonObject objectToSend = new MyJsonObject("Jenkins is the way !");
    JenkinsRule.JSONWebResponse response = j.postJSON("testing-cli/postSomething", jsonBody);
    assertTrue(response.getContentAsString().contains("Jenkins is the way !")); //because API is returning the same object.
    assertEquals(response.getStatusCode(), 200);
}

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
```

        //Since we want to assert the error status code, we need to set to false.
        JenkinsRule.WebClient webClient = j.createWebClient();
        webClient.setThrowExceptionOnFailingStatusCode(false);

        // - simple call without authentication should be forbidden
        response = j.getJSON(GET_API_URL, webClient);
        assertEquals(response.getStatusCode(), 403);

        // - same call but authenticated using withBasicApiToken() should be fine
        response = j.getJSON(GET_API_URL, webClient.withBasicApiToken(admin));
        assertEquals(response.getStatusCode(), 200);
    }

----

=== Handling POST with Jenkins

Starting from the class `JsonAPI` provided for GET example, add:

[source,java]
----
@POST
@WebMethod(name = "")
public JsonHttpResponse create(@JsonBody JSONObject body) {
    MyJsonObject parsedBody = (MyJsonObject) body.toBean(MyJsonObject.class);
    //Do any logic required for creation
    //For the example purpose we just unmarshall and recreate json
    JSONObject response = JSONObject.fromObject(parsedBody);
    return new JsonHttpResponse(response, 200);
}

----

> ### Testing with CURL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Testing with CURL
```

Reviewer: Whoops, I missed one header...  BTW, this is a really nice piece -- I like the way you write!

I just noticed that the structure is:

Title: Working with JSON
== Handle request in Jenkins

And the rest of the page is a series of === sections.  No text under the == header.  What if you made the title something like "Handling Jenkins Requests with JSON" -- combine what is currently the title and the == header, then bump the example sections up to ==.

It might be nice to add a sentence or two at the beginning to explain exactly what the subject of this page is.

Author: ok let me try to add that

---
title: Expose HTTP API with json content with Jenkins
summary: How to write GET and POST HTTP API with Jenkins, and how to test it.
layout: developersection
references:
- url: https://github.com/stapler/stapler/blob/master/docs/reference.adoc
  title: Stapler URL Binding Reference
- url: ../routing
  title: How requests in Jenkins are routed
- url: ../../testing
  title: Testing Jenkins
---

== Expose HTTP API with json content with Jenkins

It's a common requirement for automation to expose Json object over HTTP API in server. This page show how a plugin can create a Jenkins Extension to expose HTTP API for GET and POST request, and how to test it with JenkinsRules (from acceptance-test-harness).

=== Pre-requisite : a POJO (Plain Old Java Object)

For this example we are using a very simple Object.
Note that if you use Stapler for marshalling and unmarshalling JSON, you need an empty constructor.

> [source,bash]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[source,java]
```
seems better for the preview colors

        MockAuthorizationStrategy auth = new MockAuthorizationStrategy()
                .grant(Jenkins.ADMINISTER).everywhere().to(admin);

        j.jenkins.setSecurityRealm(j.createDummySecurityRealm());
        j.jenkins.setAuthorizationStrategy(auth);

        //We need to setup the webclient
        //By default if the status code is not ok, WebClient throw an exception
        //Since we want to assert the error status code, we need to set to false.
        JenkinsRule.WebClient webClient = j.createWebClient();
        webClient.setThrowExceptionOnFailingStatusCode(false);

        // - simple call without authentication should be forbidden
        response = j.getJSON(GET_API_URL, webClient);
        assertEquals(response.getStatusCode(), 403);

        // - same call but authenticated using withBasicApiToken() should be fine
        response = j.getJSON(GET_API_URL, webClient.withBasicApiToken(admin));
        assertEquals(response.getStatusCode(), 200);
    }

----

=== Handling POST with Jenkins

Starting from the class `JsonAPI` provided for GET example, add:

[source,java]
----
@POST
@WebMethod(name = "")
public JsonHttpResponse create(@JsonBody JSONObject body) {

>     MyJsonObject parsedBody = (MyJsonObject) body.toBean(MyJsonObject.class);

Reviewer 2: 💡 This part could be simplified: https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/blob/632033d6ada7c04bbc77ae710dc0a4635fdf9baa/core/src/main/java/jenkins/security/apitoken/LegacyApiTokenAdministrativeMonitor.java#L163

Author: I don't see it simple, I see it as different. In my example you have a POJO, when in you link I see it's taking the json Object as an Map of key/value. Both seems ok to me it depends on what is more easy for use on the implementation. I will try to put both of them.

Author: ah sorry, I misunderstood, I get it now, thanks !

    //Do any logic required for creation
    //For the example purpose we just unmarshall and recreate json
    JSONObject response = JSONObject.fromObject(parsedBody);
    return new JsonHttpResponse(response, 200);
}

----

=== Testing with CURL

A `mvn hpi:run` in the plugin should be enough to run it locally.  Assuming that Jenkins is up at http://localhost:8080/jenkins/ , you should have at this point:

> Get the crumb.... TBD

Reviewer 2: Please propose an example with an API token instead to prevent the need for a CSRF Token in CLI/script like this :-)

Author: yes thanks for spotting this

Author: done

---
title: Expose HTTP API with json content with Jenkins
summary: How to write GET and POST HTTP API with Jenkins, and how to test it.
layout: developersection
references:
- url: https://github.com/stapler/stapler/blob/master/docs/reference.adoc
  title: Stapler URL Binding Reference
- url: ../routing
  title: How requests in Jenkins are routed
- url: ../../testing
  title: Testing Jenkins
---

> == Expose HTTP API with json content with Jenkins

Reviewer 3: This line should be removed as it duplicates the title with the `+ title:` directive.

> It's a common requirement for automation to expose Json object over HTTP API in server. This page show how a plugin can create a Jenkins Extension to expose HTTP API for GET and POST request, and how to test it with JenkinsRules (from acceptance-test-harness).

Reviewer 3: The first sentence is a little cryptic and will shy unexperienced people away. Worth trying to rephrase and give some short use cases.

Author: I change it to summarize the content of the page instead.

=== Pre-requisite : a POJO (Plain Old Java Object)

> For this example we are using a very simple Object.

Reviewer 3: Again, for the new-be trying to understand, what is the POJO for? What is its context ?

---

> title: Expose HTTP API with json content with Jenkins

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Expose HTTP API with JSON content with Jenkins
```

[JSON](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON) is an acronym (and thus spelled in uppercase letters)

summary: How to write GET and POST HTTP API with Jenkins, and how to test it.
layout: developersection
references:
- url: https://github.com/stapler/stapler/blob/master/docs/reference.adoc
  title: Stapler URL Binding Reference
- url: ../routing
  title: How requests in Jenkins are routed
- url: ../../testing
  title: Testing Jenkins
---

This page explains how to expose Json objects over HTTP API in your Jenkins plugins, using `GET` and `POST` verbs.
This page also shows how to test it with JenkinsRules from link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins-test-harness[jenkins-test-harness].

== Pre-requisite : a POJO (Plain Old Java Object)

> This object represent the structured data that is exchanged between the HTTP server (Jenkins) and the client (Curl for example).

Reviewer 2: For "Curl" I think it's either `curl` or `cURL`

> This object represent the structured data that is exchanged between the HTTP server (Jenkins) and the client (Curl for example).

Author: ```suggestion
This object represent the structured data that is exchanged between the HTTP server (Jenkins) and the client (curl for example).
```

We are using a very simple java Object for example purpose, but in production code you will have more complex objects to manipulate. 

Note that if you use Stapler (JSONObject) for marshalling and unmarshalling JSON, you need an empty constructor.

[source,java]
----
public static class MyJsonObject {
    private String message;

    //empty constructor required for JSON parsing.
    public MyJsonObject() {}

    public MyJsonObject(String message) {
        this.message = message;
    }

    public void setMessage(String message) {
        this.message = message;
    }

    public String getMessage() {
        return message;
    }
}
----

== Handling GET with Jenkins

> This part shows how to expose an HTTP GET that return a structured json response.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This part shows how to expose an HTTP GET that return a structured JSON response.
```

7. `@GET` indicates the HTTP method that is expected, and `@WebMethod` indicates that it is accepting an HTTP request. By default, the JAVA name of the WebMethod is used, but a different name can be specified by using `name =`
8. `JsonHttpResponse` is a sub class of `HttpResponse` that indicates that the response content will be JSON
9. An HTTP status can be set in the response.
10. The method `get-error500` is added in the example to show how to set a error response as JSON.

=== Testing with CURL

A `mvn hpi:run` in the plugin should be enough to run it locally.  Assuming that Jenkins is up at http://localhost:8080/jenkins/ , you should have at this point:

[source,bash]
----
curl -XGET \
    -w "\n STATUS:%{http_code}"  \
    http://localhost:8080/jenkins/custom-api/get-example-param?paramValue=hello

{"message":"I am Jenkins hello"}
 STATUS:200
----

=== Example of test with JenkinsRule

[source,java]
----
public class JsonAPITest {

    @Rule
    public JenkinsRule j = new JenkinsRule();

    private static String GET_API_URL = "custom-api/get-example-param?paramValue=hello";

    @Test
    public void testGetJSON() throws Exception {

>         // Testing a simple GET that should answer 200 OK and a json

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        // Testing a simple GET that should answer 200 OK and a JSON
```

    public void testAdvancedGetJSON() throws Exception {
        //Testing a GET that requires the user to be authenticated
        User admin = User.getById("admin", true);
        MockAuthorizationStrategy auth = new MockAuthorizationStrategy()
                .grant(Jenkins.ADMINISTER).everywhere().to(admin);

        j.jenkins.setSecurityRealm(j.createDummySecurityRealm());
        j.jenkins.setAuthorizationStrategy(auth);

        //We need to setup the webclient
        //By default if the status code is not ok, WebClient throw an exception
        //Since we want to assert the error status code, we need to set to false.
        JenkinsRule.WebClient webClient = j.createWebClient();
        webClient.setThrowExceptionOnFailingStatusCode(false);

        // - simple call without authentication should be forbidden
        response = j.getJSON(GET_API_URL, webClient);
        assertEquals(response.getStatusCode(), 403);

        // - same call but authenticated using withBasicApiToken() should be fine
        response = j.getJSON(GET_API_URL, webClient.withBasicApiToken(admin));
        assertEquals(response.getStatusCode(), 200);
    }

----

== Handling POST with Jenkins

> This section shows how to expose an HTTP endpoint that takes a structured json Object as input, and do a response with a json structured Object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section shows how to expose an HTTP endpoint that takes a structured JSON Object as input, and do a response with a JSON structured Object.
```

> For this exmaple the same Object is used as input and output, but you can also use different json structure for the response.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this exmaple the same Object is used as input and output, but you can also use different JSON structure for the response.
```

Starting from the class `JsonAPI` provided for GET example, add:

[source,java]
----
@POST
@WebMethod(name = "")
public JsonHttpResponse create(@JsonBody MyJsonObject body) {
    //Do any logic required for creation

>     //For the example purpose we just recreate json from the same object.
>     JSONObject response = JSONObject.fromObject(body);
>     return new JsonHttpResponse(response, 200);

Reviewer 2: The second part could be confusing as it could be seen as required to extract the information from the object using JSONObject.

💡 Proposal: (dunno if it's clearer or not :D)
```suggestion
    //For the example purpose we just uppercase the message parsed from the request.
    JSONObject response = new JSONObject();
    response.put("message", body.message.toUpperCase());
    return new JsonHttpResponse(response, 200);
```

* in the section "API Token" create a new token.

For additional documentation on token, please visit:

* link:../../../book/system-administration/authenticating-scripted-clients[Authenticating scripted clients]
* link:../../../book/security/csrf-protection[CSRF Protection]

And then send the POST request:
[source,bash]
----
curl -XPOST \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --user myuser:xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx \
    http://localhost:40393/jenkins/testing-cli/postSomething \
    --data "@/my.json" \

{"message":"A nice message to send"}
 STATUS:200
----

=== Example of test with JenkinsRule

Starting from the class `JsonAPITest` provided for the GET example, add:

[source,java]
----
@Test
public void testPostJSON() throws Exception {

    MyJsonObject objectToSend = new MyJsonObject("Jenkins is the way !");
    JenkinsRule.JSONWebResponse response = j.postJSON("testing-cli/postSomething", jsonBody);

    //because API is returning the same object, we assert the input message.
    assertTrue(response.getContentAsString().contains("Jenkins is the way !")); 
    assertEquals(response.getStatusCode(), 200);
}
----

== Some additional informations

> For people that are familiar with REST/json concept you may want to use other HTTP verbs, it should work, but since generally in Jenkins onlly `GET` and `POST are used this page only shows example for this 2 verbs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For people that are familiar with REST/JSON concept you may want to use other HTTP verbs, it should work, but since generally in Jenkins only `GET` and `POST are used this page only shows example for this 2 verbs.
```

(+ typo)

        j.jenkins.setAuthorizationStrategy(auth);

        //We need to setup the webclient
        //By default if the status code is not ok, WebClient throw an exception
        //Since we want to assert the error status code, we need to set to false.
        JenkinsRule.WebClient webClient = j.createWebClient();
        webClient.setThrowExceptionOnFailingStatusCode(false);

        // - simple call without authentication should be forbidden
        response = j.getJSON(GET_API_URL, webClient);
        assertEquals(response.getStatusCode(), 403);

        // - same call but authenticated using withBasicApiToken() should be fine
        response = j.getJSON(GET_API_URL, webClient.withBasicApiToken(admin));
        assertEquals(response.getStatusCode(), 200);
    }

----

== Handling POST with Jenkins

This section shows how to expose an HTTP endpoint that takes a structured JSON Object as input, and do a response with a JSON structured Object.
For this exmaple the same Object is used as input and output, but you can also use different JSON structure for the response.

Starting from the class `JsonAPI` provided for GET example, add:

[source,java]
----
@POST

> @WebMethod(name = "")

Reviewer 4: Uh, did you forget to specify the name?

Reviewer 2: I think it's a weird but supported case by [MetaClass.java#L542](https://github.com/jenkinsci/stapler/blob/229a24fab17cb69214622ef442e2be71da0d01cb/core/src/main/java/org/kohsuke/stapler/MetaClass.java#L542) if empty, will use the method name as if the annotation was not used.

Reviewer 4: Hmm, best not to rely on this undocumented behavior? The normal idiom would be

```java
@POST
public JsonHttpResponse doCreate(@JsonBody MyJsonObject body) {…}
```

or if you prefer to be explicit about URLs and dislike Stapler method naming conventions

```java
@POST
@WebMethod(name = "create")
public JsonHttpResponse create(@JsonBody MyJsonObject body) {…}
```

Author: thanks, I think I need a following PR to fix this

Author: https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/pull/4839

Write a file `my.json` containing the JSON body:
[source,bash]
----
{"message":"A nice message to send"}
----

Then if you need a user and a token:

* go on Jenkins UI
* login as a user, for example 'myuser'
* on the top right click on user name
* go on configure (for this user)
* in the section "API Token" create a new token.

For additional documentation on token, please visit:

* link:../../../book/system-administration/authenticating-scripted-clients[Authenticating scripted clients]
* link:../../../book/security/csrf-protection[CSRF Protection]

And then send the POST request:
[source,bash]
----
curl -XPOST \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --user myuser:xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx \
    http://localhost:40393/jenkins/testing-cli/postSomething \
    --data "@/my.json" \

{"message":"A nice message to send"}
 STATUS:200
----

=== Example of test with JenkinsRule

Starting from the class `JsonAPITest` provided for the GET example, add:

[source,java]
----
@Test
public void testPostJSON() throws Exception {

    MyJsonObject objectToSend = new MyJsonObject("Jenkins is the way !");

>     JenkinsRule.JSONWebResponse response = j.postJSON("testing-cli/postSomething", jsonBody);

Reviewer 4: https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins-test-harness/pull/378#discussion_r787187800

    //because API is returning the same object, we assert the input message.
    assertTrue(response.getContentAsString().contains("Jenkins is the way !")); 
    assertEquals(response.getStatusCode(), 200);
}
----

== Some additional informations

> For people that are familiar with REST/JSON concept you may want to use other HTTP verbs, it should work, but since generally in Jenkins only `GET` and `POST are used this page only shows example for this 2 verbs.

Reviewer 4: missing `` ` ``
